Okay, so here's the last one.
We're gonna go to
the desktop version of this.
This has an @media(min-width: 800 px).
And if we look at that,
this is the crazy one.
Remember where we have these columns,
where they're not breaking
at the paragraph?
There's something else weird
that's going on here, okay?
So, that is what you're
going to work on next, and
then I'll go through the answers with you,
all right?
So, we've got actually two little
layouts here that we're doing.
One is sort of an intermediate, where
we're gonna have two columns of text here,
followed by the image.
And then, the last one will be the three
columns of text on the top, and
the image on the bottom.
So let's go through those.
Here at 800 pixels, well, we got here
a couple of little things to do.
First of all, our fancy text is bigger.
So our font-size: var ,
we want it to be even bigger now
So the next thing I'm going to do is set
my article to still have the two columns,
but I want them to be different sizes.
I want to have my
grid-template-columns to be 2fr, 1fr.
So in other words, I want my text to
take up twice as much room as the image.
Great, and
then on the image wrapper itself,
I'm gonna give it a little
bit of breathing room.
.article-img-wrapper {margin:
.5rem 0 0 2rem}.
How did we determine that?
Lengthy testing, of course, to figure
out exactly how it was going to be.
We're not done with the text on that side,
it'll make sense momentarily.
All right, so now what I'm going to do is,
what I wound up doing here,
our paragraphs are always displaying
together as a unit, right?
Paragraphs are always
displaying together as a unit.
So what I wound up doing here is
I added a div class "main-text".
To put around these paragraphs.
We always want them together.
Now I can treat them as a unit for
layout purposes.
Rather than worrying about where exactly
these paragraphs are gonna go and how
they're gonna display, I've grouped them
together and treated them as a unit, okay?
And when you do that, you should go back
and check your other breakpoints and
make sure you didn't break
anything along the way.
We won't have, which is why I could
add this at this late point in time.
Everything else is fine.
Okay, so
then what I'm going to do in order
to make the magic text thing happen here,
is on, Oops, I think I have one too many.
Here we go.
That's there.
Okay, great.
Then, what I'm going to do here is I'm
going to set my class of main-text.
And the trick is columns: 2.
You didn't know this trick, did you?
This is totally a trick.
So that's all it takes.
We put columns 2 on the parent here, and
the children will lay themselves out
here into 2-2 columns, breaking wherever
they need to in order to make two
columns of roughly the same height.
Although, you'll notice that we have a bit
of a funny gap here at the top of this
column.
Anyone have any idea
where that comes from?
>> Is it a default styling of a div,
or something?
>> Default styling of a div or something?
Could be, but-
>> Is it centered vertically, and
there's just a little bit of extra padding
or margin at the top of that element?
>> There could be something like that.
Well, how do we figure this out?
We could say border: 1px solid black,
okay?
So it looks this div here, right?
Has got no padding or margin on it.
So let's look at the children.
Border: 1px solid blue.
Okay, so our paragraphs, as we knew,
we actually want a little bit
of space in between them.
And the way the paragraphs are set up
inside of the browser, they have margin.
They have one rem of margin on the top,
one rem of margin on the bottom.
Here's something else that they
don't teach you in boot camp.
1 plus 1 equals?
>> One?
>> One.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Okay, when it comes to margin,
and you have two paragraphs here,
you want those two paragraphs
to be one rem apart, not two.
When you start your paragraph,
though you still wanna have
some space up here on the top.
So padding, 1 rem plus 1 rem equals?
>> One.
>> 1 rem plus 1 rem on
padding vertically equals?
>> 2
>> 2 rem, so that is additive,
margin collapses, okay?
And the larger number wins.
So 2 rem plus 1 rem in
margin equals 2 rem, okay?
Yeah, I know.
[LAUGH] Dinesh is going, no.
So what we can do here then is say for
our .main-text p, we could say
something like margin-top: 0.
And when we do that, the top margin
goes away but we still have space
between our paragraphs,
because the bottom margin still exists.
[SOUND]
>> That explains it.
>> Yeah, crazy craziness.
Okay, and then, of course,
you can turn off your borders and
it will look much prettier.
And that is why you
always put borders on it,
cuz it will tell you where the issue is,
all right?
So that is gonna give you two columns
of text and one column of image.
Everybody good so far?
All right, suggestions for how we might go
about then making three columns of text
with the image on the bottom?
Anybody have any ideas?
>> Image takes the whole section.
>> Right,
image has to take the whole section.
>> Change the grid template again?
>> You're gonna need to change
the grid template again.
But guess what we're gonna do this time?
Article .
So now, we're back to display blocks.
Here's the image down here on the bottom,
yeah?
Here's our main text, going all the way
across the screen, and our headline,
up here on the top.
So just cuz you started with grid doesn't
mean you have to stay with it, okay?
So now, all we have to do is
disable what we put in place.
So our .maintext,
what are we gonna do with this?
>> Three columns
>> Columns: 3.
So easy.
Aah, so nice and perfect for
those larger screens, right?
So now,
when you get to those giant screens,
you can set up your articles
to have multiple columns.
It makes the screen look more filled,
but it's still easy enough to read.
>> And
if you have the max-width setting, and
the margin auto,
that will fix all the sizes.
>> And you have dealt with,
yeah, your large screens, yeah.
>> If your screen is so wide that you sort
of run out of text to fill three columns,
would you just make three
very short columns?
>> Yes, you could, or you could make two,
put the image next to it.
>> What will this default to though,
if we don't give it something to do?
>> Well, we gave this a max-width of 1200
pixels, and I'm at 1206 right there.
But it would continue to go larger, and
you'd wind up with extra
space on either side.
Yeah, okay, so to fix this image then,
all we have to do is turn
off what we did before.
So .article-img-wrapper,
we're gonna set the max-width to 100%.
We can set a height to 500px.
Aah, so lovely.
And then, we can give it
a little bit of breathing room,
margin-top: 3rem,
give us a little space there.
And it looks like I still have a little
bit of space over here on the side.
So let me just change margin-top
to margin: 3rem 0 0 0.
Which will zero out anything
else that I have there, and
just set my top margin to 3rem.
And there's my last layout.
How fabulous is that?
>> Clever.
>> Super amazing.
And, of course, as we go back and
we slide through this,
we go from two columns of text and
the image,
to one column of text plus the image, to
the image on top and the text underneath.
>> Since we used display as block.
>> Mm-hm.
>> All the previous grid columns
are not supported for the image.
>> For the largest-
>> For the largest point.
>> That the largest breakpoint.
Often, I set display block for
the mobile part of it, and
then turn on grid or Flexbox later
to blank word columns on the page.
But the point of this is that
you can also do the reverse.
We actually wanted it earlier but
we don't want it later, yeah.
Okay, how are we doing so far?
>> In the later breakpoints,
when you have the same selector and
two different breakpoints, does
the older one get wiped out completely,
or only the properties that
you mentioned in the nuance?
>> Such a great question.
Okay, so let's just look at
article here going through this.
So we know that in the base,
we didn't actually style the article,
so there's nothing there.
I won't even open it.
Here, we start with
article here in mobile.
We have a padding set, a max-width,
a margin, and the display grid, right?
All of that carries into
this next breakpoint, but
we change the values of
grid-template-columns, right?
So now, two columns instead of one, but we
still have a max \-width, and a padding,
and a margin.
When we go to our next breakpoint,
we change the number of columns again,
all that other stuff is still holding,
right?
Because these are min-width, so everything
is continuing to cascade through.
We never turn off those styles
that came before, all right?
And then, when we get down here,
article is now display: block.
But we still have that padding in place,
the max-width of 1200 pixels, and
all the rest of it.
>> But by changing display,
now it's ignoring all of the grid
instructions from before?
>> Correct,
because grid-template-columns means
nothing unless the display is set to grid.
By setting it to block, we've canceled
out all of those other styles.
So it's very efficient.
>> So this is something we
defined on the 600 px1, and
then overwrote at a higher one.
And I guess I'm struggling
to articulate the question,
but I think I'm with Andrew too there.
Just like,
how do we know what gets taken over?
Is it simply the largest screen, the
largest media breakpoint gets listened to,
or is it the last bit
of code that we wrote?
>> The answer to that is yes.
[LAUGH] But all of those things are true.
So in this particular case,
we have this appearing last.
They're all article, the selector is
exactly the same all the way through.
Starting off in block,
which is the default browser value,
we then set it to grid.
And now, here at the end,
we put in this min-width of 500 pixels and
we're saying to display grid again, after
we said display block at 1000 pixels.
>> So this is grid display.
>> This is grid display.
You can see there's our three columns
of text plus the image over here.
>> Okay.
>> So
>> So it is the latest thing.
It's the old JavaScript thing of something
gets overwritten later, or something?
>> And again, it depends.
It still depends, because there were
ways that I could make this not work,
and work, and so forth.
But the easiest way to do this so that
you get the least confused [LAUGH] and
that makes the most sense,
is to put your media queries in order.
So they get progressively larger.
So that you're overriding things stepwise.
Does that help?
>> Yes, it does.
>> Okay, this is also a useful property if
you ever do anything with printing, and
you wanna have columns in your printing
just so that you take up less paper.
You can include these as a print style.
Something to file away, yeah.